Created a document for upgrading an AC image (#287)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/v0.25/10_certified-image/06_upgrade-ac.md

---
title: "Upgrade Your Astronomer Certified Image"
navTitle: "Upgrade Airflow"
description: "Upgrade your Apache Airflow environment by installing the latest image from Astronomer Core."
---

## Overview

> A new version of the Astronomer Core image is released for every new version of Apache Airflow. We recommend regularly upgrading your Astronomer Core image to take advantage of new features and fixes.
> 
> Use this guide to upgrade your Airflow environment either on a virtual machine or on Docker. For more information on Astronomer Core's release cycle, read our [Release Reference].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New versions of Astronomer Certified (AC) are released regularly to support new major, minor, or patch versions of Apache Airflow. To take advantage of both features as well as bug and security fixes, we recommend regularly upgrading to the latest version of AC.

Follow this guide to upgrade your Airflow environment either on a virtual machine with the AC Python Wheel or on Docker with the AC Docker image. For more information on Astronomer Certified's release cycle, read our [Release Reference].
```

Reviewer: I don't necessarily want to promise "new version of AC for every new version of Airflow", so adjusted the wording here. I also tweaked language to be inclusive of the Python wheel and not just introduce this as a "Docker image" doc.

Reviewer: Also, replace all "Core" to "Certified"

> >**Note:** Upgrading to Airflow 2.0 requires additional steps and precautions. If you're upgrading from a pre-2.0 image to a 2.0+ image, we recommend following the preparation steps in the Apache Airflow [Upgrading to Airflow 2.0 guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/upgrading-to-2.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** Upgrading to Airflow 2.0 requires additional steps and precautions. If you're upgrading from Airflow 1.10 to Airflow 2.0+, we recommend following Apache Airflow's [Upgrading to Airflow 2.0 guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/upgrading-to-2.html).
```

Reviewer: Not just image! Also, I think it's clearer to say `1.10` and `2.0+`

> ## Upgrade the Astronomer Core Python Package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade the Astronomer Certified Python Wheel
```

Before upgrading, make sure both of the following are true:

* Your Airflow metadata DB is backed up.

> * All DAGs have been paused; nothing is currently running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All DAGs have been paused and no tasks are running.
```

Then, for each machine running Airflow:

1. Upgrade Astronomer Certified using the following command, making sure to replace the dependencies and version number as needed:

    ```sh

>     pip install --extra-index-url=https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/ 'astronomer-    certified[<dependencies>]==<version-number>' --upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pip install --extra-index-url=https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/ 'astronomer-certified[<dependencies>]==<version-number>' --upgrade
```

    ```

For example, if you wanted to upgrade to the latest patch version of Airflow 2.1 while using a Postgres database, your command would look something like this:

    ```sh
    pip install --extra-index-url=https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/ 'astronomer-certified[postgres]==2.1.0.*' --upgrade
    ```

2. Upgrade your metadata DB using the following command:

    ```sh
    airflow upgrade db

>     ```

Reviewer: Make a note about this command changing if you're pre or post 2.0. Link here: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/upgrading-to-2.html#airflow-cli-changes-in-2-0

> 3. In a web browser, access the Airflow UI at http://host:port and click **About** > **Version**. Once there, you should see the correct Airflow version listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In a web browser, access the Airflow UI at http://localhost:8080 and click **About** > **Version**. Once there, you should see the correct Airflow version listed.
```

Reviewer: This is what the "Note" below assumes (8080)

>     > **Note:** The URL listed above assumes your Webserver is at Port 8080 (default). To change that default, read [this forum post](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/i-already-have-the-ports-that-the-cli-is-trying-to-use-8080-5432-occupied-can-i-change-the-ports-when-starting-a-project/48).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** The URL listed above assumes your Webserver is at port 8080 (default). To change that default, read [this forum post](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/i-already-have-the-ports-that-the-cli-is-trying-to-use-8080-5432-occupied-can-i-change-the-ports-when-starting-a-project/48).
```

> ## Upgrade Astronomer Core in Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade Astronomer Certified on Docker
```

> If you're upgrading an Astronomer Core environment running in Docker, all you need to do is update the link to the image in your Dockerfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're upgrading an Astronomer Certified environment running on Docker, all you need to do is update your Dockerfile to reference a new Docker image that corresponds with the Airflow version you'd like to run.
```

Author: Shortened this a bit.

> 1. Choose a new image for Astronomer Certified based on the Airflow version you want to upgrade to. Make note of the image's URL. For a list of supported Astronomer Certified images, see [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads/) or our [Quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose a new Astronomer Certified image based on the Airflow version you want to upgrade to. For a list of supported Astronomer Certified images, see [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads/) or our [Quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).
```

>     > **Note:** Once you upgrade Airflow versions, you cannot downgrade to an earlier version. The Airflow metadata database structurally changes with each release, which results in backwards incompatibility across versions.

Reviewer: Wondering if this note might actually belong on top since it's potentially applicable to both Docker image + Python wheel?

2. Open the `Dockerfile` in your Airflow project directory.

> 3. In your `Dockerfile`, replace the URL in the `FROM` line with the URL for the Astronomer Certified version you're upgrading to. If you were upgrading to Airflow 2.1, for example, your Dockerfile would include the following line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In your `Dockerfile`, replace the existing `FROM` statement with the new Astronomer Certified Docker image you're upgrading to. If you wanted to upgrade to Airflow 2.1, for example, your Dockerfile would look like the following:
```

Author: Reworded this slightly

    ```
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.1.0-buster-onbuild
    ```

    If you're developing locally, make sure to save your changes before proceeding.

> 4. Run `astro dev stop` followed by `astro dev start` to restart your 3 Airflow components (Scheduler, Webserver, and Database).

Reviewer: Maybe not that this is only if you're using the Astro CLI?

> 5. In a web browser, go to http://localhost:8080/ and click **About** > **Version** to confirm that the upgrade was successful.

Reviewer: This assumes you're only developing locally. Should we just say:

> Now, open the Airflow UI and click **About** > **Version** to confirm that the upgrade was successful. If you're developing locally with the Astronomer CLI, this would be http://localhost:8080/.

## Upgrade the Astronomer Certified Python Wheel

Before upgrading, make sure both of the following are true:

* Your Airflow metadata DB is backed up.
* All DAGs have been paused and no tasks are running.

Then, for each machine running Airflow:

1. Upgrade Astronomer Certified using the following command, making sure to replace the dependencies and version number as needed:

    ```sh
    pip install --extra-index-url=https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/ 'astronomer-certified[<dependencies>]==<version-number>' --upgrade
    ```

For example, if you wanted to upgrade to the latest patch version of Airflow 2.1 while using a Postgres database, your command would look something like this:

    ```sh
    pip install --extra-index-url=https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/ 'astronomer-certified[postgres]==2.1.0.*' --upgrade
    ```

2. Upgrade your metadata DB using the following command:

    ```sh
    airflow upgradedb
    ```

    > **Note:** This command changes to `airflow db upgrade` in Airflow 2.0+. For more information on major changes in 2.0, read [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/upgrading-to-2.html#airflow-cli-changes-in-2-0).

> 3. In a web browser, access the Airflow UI at http://host:8080 and click **About** > **Version**. Once there, you should see the correct Airflow version listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In a web browser, access the Airflow UI at http://localhost:8080 and click **About** > **Version**. Once there, you should see the correct Airflow version listed.
```

## Upgrade Astronomer Certified on Docker

If you're upgrading an Astronomer Certified environment running on Docker, all you need to do is update your Dockerfile to reference a new Astronomer Certified Docker image.

1. Choose a new Astronomer Certified image based on the Airflow version you want to upgrade to. For a list of supported Astronomer Certified images, see [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads/) or our [Quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

2. Open the `Dockerfile` in your Airflow project directory.

In your `Dockerfile`, replace the value in the existing `FROM` statement with the new Astronomer Certified Docker image you're upgrading to. For example, to upgrade to Airflow 2.1, your Dockerfile would include the following line:

    ```
    FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.1.0-buster-onbuild
    ```

    If you're developing locally, make sure to save your changes before proceeding.

4. If you are using the Astronomer CLI, run `astro dev stop` followed by `astro dev start` to restart your 3 Airflow components (Scheduler, Webserver, and Database).

>     If you aren't using the Astronomer CLI, you manually stop all Airflow containers using `docker-compose down --volumes --rmi all`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you aren't using the Astronomer CLI, you can manually stop all Airflow containers using `docker-compose down --volumes --rmi all`.
```
